title: Houses
-
content: 

Welcome to Glavco Industries, the second largest widget manufacturer in the United States of America. As our newest employee, we would like to officially thank you for not complaining during the orientation meeting this morning. You wouldn’t believe how many people moan about being immediately stripped of their business clothes and covered in massive quantities of delousing powder mid-Powerpoint presentation. No matter how many times we menacingly shout it over the PA system, one simple fact never sinks into the brains of our ungrateful new hires: this is a standard business practice. And, quite frankly, weren’t these same individuals grousing about the lack of job opportunities just a few weeks prior? Suffice it to say, your patience was both appreciated and noted.

We expect that you have many questions regarding the company, first of which is probably, “What is a ‘widget’ and why are we shipping so many of them to North Korea and Iran?” Ha ha. Don’t worry. Wipe that concerned look off your face. It’s a common inquiry that will not be answered now or ever. Please refrain from asking again and understand that such insubordination will hold consequences in the future.

Our staff consists of many talented former professionals who were unfortunately laid-off without warning during the financial collapse: surgeons, engineers, educators, pilots, medical technicians. We understand that you might consider this new position somewhat of a “downgrade,” both financially and mentally; that screwing metal pieces together is “mindless labor.” But we think your skills will prove invaluable considering the number of hands accidentally severed off in our factory. Perhaps you could invent new prosthetic limbs or concoct an amazing super drug that prevents workers from ever falling asleep. Who knows? Don’t be shy. Be creative! IMPORTANT NOTE: Please know we cannot offer additional compensation for these services. You wouldn’t pay an office’s designated Fire Marshall for his or her volunteer work, would you?

Fun and Glavco are synonymous terms. Since our company was founded in 1824 by Joseph Prescott Sumner Glavco IV, Glavco Industries has understood the importance of respecting employees’ home life. So much so that we have built a small town surrounding our factory for your family to live in. You’ll never need to worry about missing your children’s first steps or words when you are staring at them from high above through a barred window. In fact, unbeknownst to you, we’ve already relocated them. And best of all, this amenity is completely gratis. We’re simply going to deduct 67% from your weekly paycheck to cover a few overheads. Don’t bother crunching the numbers in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. For one, you don’t have a computer. And, for another, it’s unnecessary. Consider this offer cheaper than the national rent average. Lights will be turned off by 6:00 PM to conserve energy costs. Please visit our very own candle shop owner, Ms. Gristle, located on Main St. in Glavcotown if you require reasonably priced visibility at night.


