title: How
-
content: 

## How I Coach My Clients

HOW I COACH MY CLIENTS	

I expect your best. By retaining me as your coach, you are making a statement that you are ready to achieve a new level of personal and/or professional excellence.  I am prepared to support and endorse you to reach for much more than you might have asked of yourself, always in accordance with your stated agenda, and always within your capabilities.  

I help you identify and systematically eliminate obstacles to your success. It has been my repeated experience that most obstacles are in fact internal (i.e., attitudes, beliefs and habits that get in our way of being all that we are capable of being.) I will be inquisitive. When I hear a funny tone in your voice, become aware of one of your blind spots, or notice something new or different, I will ask you about it.  Often, it is these small “moments of truth” which create the opportunity for a significant shift in your thinking, feelings or behavior.  

I challenge you.  Be assured that I will not confront or push; I will merely invite you to look at something.  I can do this because I operate from the belief that we have a relationship based on trust, and that such a relationship demands truthful communication.  



HOW TO GET THE MOST FROM COACHING

Be intentional about what you want to accomplish.  Coaching fosters the realization of extraordinary results when you have a clear and compelling agenda.  This means keeping your overall coaching goals at the forefront, and systematically taking the actions that will move you in the desired direction. 

Make a commitment and arrive prepared.  We have a set amount of time together, and you will want to have a written list of the things you want to share and discuss, in order to maximize the coaching session. 

Tell the truth. Be honest with yourself and me 100% of the time. I want to hear everything you wish to express. We will work in a “non-judgmental zone” when we interact.  If you ever feel any dissatisfaction in your coaching, speak up. This will keep our partnership strong. Partners communicate with respect as equals, and trust each other’s intention of well being toward one another. I welcome all of your input.

Enjoy our sessions.  We have work to do together, but I want you to enjoy your coaching sessions.  In fact, lightening one’s load with humor can be a powerful way to gain fresh perspective and see new possibilities and is typical of my approach.  Coaching needn’t be intense or an effort for you to produce the extraordinary.